
The Michigan Brief | News from the Office of Senator Debbie
Stabenow
july 31, 2014
|
FEATURED STORY
Keeping Our Promise
Bipartisan Bill Means Increased Health Care and Accountability for
Veterans
Congress has come together to pass legislation that allow the VA to
hire more doctors and address other staff issues to make sure veterans
are getting the care they deserve. The measure also gives newly
confirmed VA Secretary Robert McDonald a better ability to fire
officials responsible for poor performance at VA health facilities.
"Through months of hard work, Democrats and Republicans were able to
come together to get veterans across the country the health care they
need and deserve when they need it," said Stabenow. For years, Senator
Stabenow has led the fight to make sure that veterans get the care they
need and bring veterans' health clinics to Michigan. New clinics have
opened in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Cheboygan County, Clare, and
Grayling.
Read More
Joint Commission Takes First Steps Toward Building New International
Bridge
Senator Stabenow applauded the news that Canada and Michigan have named
appointees to serve on the group that will oversee construction of the
Detroit-Windsor bridge project, including the New International Trade
Crossing. Senator Stabenow has been a key voice in advancing
construction of this project, having recently traveled to Ottawa to
discuss the bridge and other issues with Canadian officials, including
Transport Minister Lisa Raitt. "The New International Trade Crossing is
vital for creating jobs and growing our economy here in Michigan and
across the country, and this announcement brings us one step closer to
getting this done," said Stabenow. "With all of the necessary permits
already in place, we now have a strong, international authority that
will make sure construction moves forward as soon as possible. I look
forward to continuing to work with Rep. Gary Peters and others in our
delegation, as well as our excellent partners in Canada, to secure the
final funding necessary to break ground on this project without further
delay," she added. Expected to be completed in 2020, the New
International Trade Crossing would promote bilateral trade and commerce
with Canada, significantly increase the flow of goods moving across the
border, and create tens of thousands of jobs in Michigan alone.
Read More
July 31 |
FROM DEBBIE'S GALLERY
YouTube
Flickr
Twitter
RSS
Contact
Privacy
|
Unsubscribe
july
31,
2014
|
FEATURED
STORY
Keeping
Our
Promise
>
Bipartisan
Bill
Means
Increased
Health
Care
and
Accountability
for
Veterans
Congress
has
come
together
to
pass
legislation
that
allow
the
VA
to
hire
more
doctors
and
address
other
staff
issues
to
make
sure
veterans
are
getting
the
care
they
deserve.
The
measure
also
gives
newly
confirmed
VA
Secretary
Robert
McDonald
a
better
ability
to
fire
officials
responsible
for
poor
performance
at
VA
health
facilities.
&#8220;Through
months
of
hard
work,
Democrats
and
Republicans
were
able
to
come
together
to
get
veterans
across
the
country
the
health
care
they
need
and
deserve
when
they
need
it,&#8221;
said
Stabenow.
For
years,
Senator
Stabenow
has
led
the
fight
to
make
sure
that
veterans
get
the
care
they
need
and
bring
veterans&#8217;
health
clinics
to
Michigan.
New
clinics
have
opened
in
Alpena,
Bad
Axe,
Cadillac,
Cheboygan
County,
Clare,
and
Grayling.
Read
More
Joint
Commission
Takes
First
Steps
Toward
Building
New
International
Bridge
Senator
Stabenow
applauded
the
news
that
Canada
and
Michigan
have
named
appointees
to
serve
on
the
group
that
will
oversee
construction
of
the
Detroit-Windsor
bridge
project,
including
the
New
International
Trade
Crossing.
Senator
Stabenow
has
been
a
key
voice
in
advancing
construction
of
this
project,
having
recently
traveled
to
Ottawa
to
discuss
the
bridge
and
other
issues
with
Canadian
officials,
including
Transport
Minister
Lisa
Raitt.
"The
New
International
Trade
Crossing
is
vital
for
creating
jobs
and
growing
our
economy
here
in
Michigan
and
across
the
country,
and
this
announcement
brings
us
one
step
closer
to
getting
this
done,"
said
Stabenow.
"With
all
of
the
necessary
permits
already
in
place,
we
now
have
a
strong,
international
authority
that
will
make
sure
construction
moves
forward
as
soon
as
possible.
I
look
forward
to
continuing
to
work
with
Rep.
Gary
Peters
and
others
in
our
delegation,
as
well
as
our
excellent
partners
in
Canada,
to
secure
the
final
funding
necessary
to
break
ground
on
this
project
without
further
delay,"
she
added.
Expected
to
be
completed
in
2020,
the
New
International
Trade
Crossing
would
promote
bilateral
trade
and
commerce
with
Canada,
significantly
increase
the
flow
of
goods
moving
across
the
border,
and
create
tens
of
thousands
of
jobs
in
Michigan
alone. Read
More
July
31
|
FROM
DEBBIE'S
GALLERY
YouTube Flickr
Twitter
RSS Contact
Privacy
|
Unsubscribe
