
Click here to open a plain text version of this
email
News from Representative Richard Nugent
Dear Friends,
There is obviously a lot going on in Washington right now, but most of
it we've talked about at length already. Briefly - the House did
continue its work on passing the appropriations bills. That's a good
thing and we've got more coming up next week.
One thing I did want to touch on - As I alluded to last week, Defense
Secretary Hagel showed up as scheduled to testify before the Armed
Services Committee about the prisoner swap. I promise you, he'd have
preferred to be at the dentist's office.
Not surprisingly, much of the questioning (from both sides of the
aisle) focused on why the White House felt it was justified in ignoring
the law and failing to inform Congress of their plans. Democrats and
Republicans both feel some genuine anger about the President's decision
and their excuses haven't helped. The Administration has tried out a
few different versions since the story broke. First it was because they
were concerned about Sgt. Bergdahl's health - because of a video that
was released six months earlier. Then it was because they were worried
his captors were getting ready to kill him - which would've been
inexplicable after five years of keeping him. Then they changed their
minds again and said that they were concerned that Congress would leak
the information and that would put the soldiers who were going to
retrieve him in jeopardy. Then it was because the Qatari government
told them that if there was a leak, the deal would be off. Then it was
because they only knew the day before the transfer that the deal was
going to happen.
We'll start with this latest one first. To be clear - the United States
government signed a memorandum of understanding with the Qatari
government on May 12th - weeks before the actual transfer took place.
This didn't come up the day before the swap. They could have notified
Congress then, so that excuse is just plain bogus. We'll just go ahead
and skip the, "we only follow the law if the Qatari government says it's
ok" bit. That's just nonsense. So what about the "our troops going to
fetch Bergdahl would be in jeopardy if we informed Congress"? Well, the
administration gave advance warning to Congress about the raid on Osama
bin Laden's compound, and that wasn't exactly a low risk mission. And
if the Secretary was so concerned about leaks, then why are we hearing
reports that nearly 100 people across the Administration know about the
deal? They even went so far as to inform the Department of Justice so
they could request a letter of opinion saying that the President didn't
need to follow the law.
All of these excuses are bogus and the Administration knows it. I think
the most encouraging thing to me about this situation is that Congress
as an institution finally started pushing back against the Executive
Branch - not as hard as I'd like - but pushing back nonetheless. We'll
see what that leads to.
The other big news of the week was the surprise defeat of House
Majority Leader Eric Cantor. As you might expect, there have been a lot
of discussions going on in the press and within the halls of Congress
as to why he lost. Some people attribute the defeat to the positions
he's taken on a variety of issues. There is undoubtedly truth to that.
But as I've pointed out to a number of my colleagues who asked me my
thoughts on it, issues alone wouldn't explain why he lost so badly and
so many other members with similar positions ended up winning handily.
My take on it is this, and it's pretty simple: There are two kinds of
representatives in Washington - those who make sure they are on the
first flight back home every week and those who think DC is a nice
place to stay for the weekend. If you don't genuinely enjoy spending
time at home listening to people, if you don't thoughtfully respond to
their questions, if you don't take their views into account, then at
some point, they will find somebody to replace you with. It's that
simple. Being in the leadership is not an easy job and he spent a great
deal of time travelling around to help fellow members. That's part of
the job and I get that. But it doesn't absolve you of being accountable
to the people who send you to Washington in the first place. The job
title is "representative" and I think some people in Washington would
do well to reflect on that from time to time. Our Founding Fathers set
up our system of government the way they did for a reason. And that
system has served us pretty well over the years. Good representatives,
as they envisioned it, work hard to make sure they are always available
to the people back home. It's why, for instance, I make sure that when
people request a meeting, we move heaven and earth to accommodate
conflicting schedules. It's why I respond to every letter I get, even
if I can't do it right away. It's why even when we're in Washington, we
set aside time to do our tele-town halls. With all of this
communication technology we have today, there is no excuse, none, not
to be available to people.
All of this is to say, as I've said a thousand times before, if you
ever need to reach me, just know that you can. If you want to
participate in the tele-town halls, just make sure we've got your phone
number. If you ever want to sit down and talk, we'll be sure to make it
happen. And last but not least, if you should ever feel like your
question wasn't answered or your concern wasn't heard, please be sure
to let me know. It is a real and genuine honor to serve you all. Even
though we may not agree on every issue, each and every citizen of this
great country has a right to be heard. And as we saw this week, I know
all too well that the American people won't hesitate to show somebody
the door if they feel like that basic responsibility isn't being met.
So thank you, as always, for your time and please let me know if there
is anything I can do to be of service to you. Thanks again and have a
great weekend.
Sincerely,
Rich Nugent
Member of Congress
Unsubscribe
|
Privacy
Policy
Click here to open this e-mail in its own browser window
Click here to open a plain text version of this email
News
from
Representative
Richard
Nugent
Dear
Friends,
There
is
obviously
a
lot
going
on
in
Washington
right
now,
but
most
of
it
we&#8217;ve
talked
about
at
length
already.
Briefly
-
the
House
did
continue
its
work
on
passing
the
appropriations
bills.
That&#8217;s
a
good
thing
and
we&#8217;ve
got
more
coming
up
next
week.
One
thing
I
did
want
to
touch
on
-
As
I
alluded
to
last
week,
Defense
Secretary
Hagel
showed
up
as
scheduled
to
testify
before
the
Armed
Services
Committee
about
the
prisoner
swap.
I
promise
you,
he&#8217;d
have
preferred
to
be
at
the
dentist&#8217;s
office.
Not
surprisingly,
much
of
the
questioning
(from
both
sides
of
the
aisle)
focused
on
why
the
White
House
felt
it
was
justified
in
ignoring
the
law
and
failing
to
inform
Congress
of
their
plans.
Democrats
and
Republicans
both
feel
some
genuine
anger
about
the
President&#8217;s
decision
and
their
excuses
haven&#8217;t
helped.
The
Administration
has
tried
out
a
few
different
versions
since
the
story
broke.
First
it
was
because
they
were
concerned
about
Sgt.
Bergdahl&#8217;s
health
&#8211;
because
of
a
video
that
was
released
six
months
earlier.
Then
it
was
because
they
were
worried
his
captors
were
getting
ready
to
kill
him
&#8211;
which
would&#8217;ve
been
inexplicable
after
five
years
of
keeping
him.
Then
they
changed
their
minds
again
and
said
that
they
were
concerned
that
Congress
would
leak
the
information
and
that
would
put
the
soldiers
who
were
going
to
retrieve
him
in
jeopardy.
Then
it
was
because
the
Qatari
government
told
them
that
if
there
was
a
leak,
the
deal
would
be
off.
Then
it
was
because
they
only
knew
the
day
before
the
transfer
that
the
deal
was
going
to
happen.
We&#8217;ll
start
with
this
latest
one
first.
To
be
clear
&#8211;
the
United
States
government
signed
a
memorandum
of
understanding
with
the
Qatari
government
on
May
12th
&#8211;
weeks
before
the
actual
transfer
took
place.
This
didn&#8217;t
come
up
the
day
before
the
swap.
They
could
have
notified
Congress
then,
so
that
excuse
is
just
plain
bogus.
We&#8217;ll
just
go
ahead
and
skip
the,
&#8220;we
only
follow
the
law
if
the
Qatari
government
says
it&#8217;s
ok&#8221;
bit.
That&#8217;s
just
nonsense.
So
what
about
the
&#8220;our
troops
going
to
fetch
Bergdahl
would
be
in
jeopardy
if
we
informed
Congress&#8221;?
Well,
the
administration
gave
advance
warning
to
Congress
about
the
raid
on
Osama
bin
Laden&#8217;s
compound,
and
that
wasn&#8217;t
exactly
a
low
risk
mission.
And
if
the
Secretary
was
so
concerned
about
leaks,
then
why
are
we
hearing
reports
that
nearly
100
people
across
the
Administration
know
about
the
deal?
They
even
went
so
far
as
to
inform
the
Department
of
Justice
so
they
could
request
a
letter
of
opinion
saying
that
the
President
didn&#8217;t
need
to
follow
the
law.
All
of
these
excuses
are
bogus
and
the
Administration
knows
it.
I
think
the
most
encouraging
thing
to
me
about
this
situation
is
that
Congress
as
an
institution
finally
started
pushing
back
against
the
Executive
Branch
&#8211;
not
as
hard
as
I&#8217;d
like
&#8211;
but
pushing
back
nonetheless.
We&#8217;ll
see
what
that
leads
to&#8230;
The
other
big
news
of
the
week
was
the
surprise
defeat
of
House
Majority
Leader
Eric
Cantor.
As
you
might
expect,
there
have
been
a
lot
of
discussions
going
on
in
the
press
and
within
the
halls
of
Congress
as
to
why
he
lost.
Some
people
attribute
the
defeat
to
the
positions
he&#8217;s
taken
on
a
variety
of
issues.
There
is
undoubtedly
truth
to
that.
But
as
I&#8217;ve
pointed
out
to
a
number
of
my
colleagues
who
asked
me
my
thoughts
on
it,
issues
alone
wouldn&#8217;t
explain
why
he
lost
so
badly
and
so
many
other
members
with
similar
positions
ended
up
winning
handily.
My
take
on
it
is
this,
and
it&#8217;s
pretty
simple:
There
are
two
kinds
of
representatives
in
Washington
&#8211;
those
who
make
sure
they
are
on
the
first
flight
back
home
every
week
and
those
who
think
DC
is
a
nice
place
to
stay
for
the
weekend.
If
you
don&#8217;t
genuinely
enjoy
spending
time
at
home
listening
to
people,
if
you
don&#8217;t
thoughtfully
respond
to
their
questions,
if
you
don&#8217;t
take
their
views
into
account,
then
at
some
point,
they
will
find
somebody
to
replace
you
with.
It&#8217;s
that
simple.
Being
in
the
leadership
is
not
an
easy
job
and
he
spent
a
great
deal
of
time
travelling
around
to
help
fellow
members.
That&#8217;s
part
of
the
job
and
I
get
that.
But
it
doesn&#8217;t
absolve
you
of
being
accountable
to
the
people
who
send
you
to
Washington
in
the
first
place.
The
job
title
is
&#8220;representative&#8221;
and
I
think
some
people
in
Washington
would
do
well
to
reflect
on
that
from
time
to
time.
Our
Founding
Fathers
set
up
our
system
of
government
the
way
they
did
for
a
reason.
And
that
system
has
served
us
pretty
well
over
the
years.
Good
representatives,
as
they
envisioned
it,
work
hard
to
make
sure
they
are
always
available
to
the
people
back
home.
It&#8217;s
why,
for
instance,
I
make
sure
that
when
people
request
a
meeting,
we
move
heaven
and
earth
to
accommodate
conflicting
schedules.
It&#8217;s
why
I
respond
to
every
letter
I
get,
even
if
I
can&#8217;t
do
it
right
away.
It&#8217;s
why
even
when
we&#8217;re
in
Washington,
we
set
aside
time
to
do
our
tele-town
halls.
With
all
of
this
communication
technology
we
have
today,
there
is
no
excuse,
none,
not
to
be
available
to
people.
All
of
this
is
to
say,
as
I&#8217;ve
said
a
thousand
times
before,
if
you
ever
need
to
reach
me,
just
know
that
you
can.
If
you
want
to
participate
in
the
tele-town
halls,
just
make
sure
we&#8217;ve
got
your
phone
number.
If
you
ever
want
to
sit
down
and
talk,
we&#8217;ll
be
sure
to
make
it
happen.
And
last
but
not
least,
if
you
should
ever
feel
like
your
question
wasn&#8217;t
answered
or
your
concern
wasn&#8217;t
heard,
please
be
sure
to
let
me
know.
It
is
a
real
and
genuine
honor
to
serve
you
all.
Even
though
we
may
not
agree
on
every
issue,
each
and
every
citizen
of
this
great
country
has
a
right
to
be
heard.
And
as
we
saw
this
week,
I
know
all
too
well
that
the
American
people
won&#8217;t
hesitate
to
show
somebody
the
door
if
they
feel
like
that
basic
responsibility
isn&#8217;t
being
met.
So
thank
you,
as
always,
for
your
time
and
please
let
me
know
if
there
is
anything
I
can
do
to
be
of
service
to
you.
Thanks
again
and
have
a
great
weekend.
Sincerely, Rich
Nugent Member
of
Congress
Unsubscribe
|
Privacy
Policy
