
Click here to open a plain text version of this
email
News from Representative Richard Nugent
Dear Friends,
Three words this week: National Defense Authorization. As a member of
the House Armed Services Committee, the process of crafting and
revising the annual National Defense Authorization (NDAA) is more or
less a year-long process, which culminates with full House
consideration (and hopefully passage) of the final bill. This was that
week.
After recent committee consideration of over 160 amendments, we opened
the bill up to the full House for amendment and consideration. With 435
members in the House, we get a lot of ideas. After some late nights and
some protracted debate, I am pleased to report that for the 53rd year
in a row, the House overwhelmingly passed this year's funding bill.
It's a pretty important part of the process, especially considering the
size of the Defense budget and what a crucial role it plays in the
security of our nation and our allies. As we've discussed before, the
way Congress is supposed to work, the President submits his budget
request to Congress sometime around February (technically supposed to
be the first Monday). The House and Senate then take the President's
request into consideration and pass respective budget resolutions.
Those two resolutions are then supposed to be reconciled into a single
agreed-upon set of numbers.
Among other things, those top-line numbers set the caps for each of the
12 appropriations bills. From there, each "department" requires both an
authorization bill and an appropriations bill. The authorization bill
determines what is permitted for each specific line item and then the
appropriations bill actually moves the funds over to the agency to
spend) according to the directives and limitations of the authorization
bill). It's all a very complicated way of saying, just because a
program is authorized does not mean that money will be appropriated to
pay for it. Conversely, if money is allocated for something and the
authorization bill prohibits or limits it, the money cannot be spent in
excess of that authorization. Key point - both bills matter a great
deal.
For something as big as the Defense budget, it's a lot of programs and
a lot of line items. So the year-long committee process is important in
making sure we do the due diligence required to make sure the funds are
allocated in the most efficient and effective way. Here's a quick
example. Right now, the Air Force is working on a small, targeted EMP
device, which can knock out the electrical systems of an enemy ship or
command and control center. The goal is to put those small EMPs on a
reusable delivery vehicle so we can send it out, zap the enemy, and
reuse the weapon again later. They anticipate gaining that capability
in about a decade. Last year, I learned that we had over a hundred old
cruise missiles sitting in a warehouse collecting dust and with some
slight modifications, we could retrofit those cruise missiles to carry
the EMP. It would be a one-off tool, but it would provide our
warfighters with that capability years ahead of schedule at a fraction
of the cost. That was one of my amendments to the bill.
Without these bills, we can't get into the weeds like this to ask the
tough questions. That's why it's so frustrating to me that when we are
obligated to pass budgets and then twelve appropriations and
authorization bills that Congress often just doesn't bother (last year,
the Senate didn't pass a single one).
It's not necessarily the most exciting thing in the world, but it
matters. Managing the taxpayers' investments is fundamental to what
Congress is supposed to do. Leaving it on auto-pilot is a gross
dereliction of duty, in my opinion - especially when times are tough
and budgets are so tight.
In any case, I'm pleased to report that the House is doing its job. It's
not always graceful and the results won't always yield everything we'd
like, but it's an important part of the process and something the
Founders put a great deal of thought into when they were setting up our
system of government. If you are interested in hearing more about this
year's NDAA or anything else we're working on up in Washington, please
let me know.
On a final note, this weekend we recognize Memorial Day in America. It's
a time to reflect and honor those brave men and women who have made the
ultimate sacrifice in defense of this nation. As a father of three
soldiers and as member of the Armed Services Committee, the question of
how we equip, train, and utilize our military is never far from my
mind. The decisions we make in Congress, whether it is to authorize
military action or to make investments in new training and equipment
have real consequences for our warfighters. But all of the investment
this nation makes in our military means nothing without the brave
individuals who volunteer - each and every one of them - to step up and
serve. It is our human assets and the investment and sacrifice that
military families make that makes our military the strongest fighting
force in the world. So this weekend, as we recognize those American
heroes who have fallen, please take a moment to thank those veterans
out there who I know would have proudly and honorably taken their
place.
Sincerely,
Rich Nugent
Member of Congress
Unsubscribe
|
Privacy
Policy
Click here to open this e-mail in its own browser window
Click here to open a plain text version of this email
News
from
Representative
Richard
Nugent
Dear
Friends,
Three
words
this
week:
National
Defense
Authorization&#8230;
As
a
member
of
the
House
Armed
Services
Committee,
the
process
of
crafting
and
revising
the
annual
National
Defense
Authorization
(NDAA)
is
more
or
less
a
year-long
process,
which
culminates
with
full
House
consideration
(and
hopefully
passage)
of
the
final
bill.
This
was
that
week.
After
recent
committee
consideration
of
over
160
amendments,
we
opened
the
bill
up
to
the
full
House
for
amendment
and
consideration.
With
435
members
in
the
House,
we
get
a
lot
of
ideas.
After
some
late
nights
and
some
protracted
debate,
I
am
pleased
to
report
that
for
the
53rd
year
in
a
row,
the
House
overwhelmingly
passed
this
year&#8217;s
funding
bill.
It&#8217;s
a
pretty
important
part
of
the
process,
especially
considering
the
size
of
the
Defense
budget
and
what
a
crucial
role
it
plays
in
the
security
of
our
nation
and
our
allies.
As
we&#8217;ve
discussed
before,
the
way
Congress
is
supposed
to
work,
the
President
submits
his
budget
request
to
Congress
sometime
around
February
(technically
supposed
to
be
the
first
Monday).
The
House
and
Senate
then
take
the
President&#8217;s
request
into
consideration
and
pass
respective
budget
resolutions.
Those
two
resolutions
are
then
supposed
to
be
reconciled
into
a
single
agreed-upon
set
of
numbers.
Among
other
things,
those
top-line
numbers
set
the
caps
for
each
of
the
12
appropriations
bills.
From
there,
each
&#8220;department&#8221;
requires
both
an
authorization
bill
and
an
appropriations
bill.
The
authorization
bill
determines
what
is
permitted
for
each
specific
line
item
and
then
the
appropriations
bill
actually
moves
the
funds
over
to
the
agency
to
spend)
according
to
the
directives
and
limitations
of
the
authorization
bill).
It&#8217;s
all
a
very
complicated
way
of
saying,
just
because
a
program
is
authorized
does
not
mean
that
money
will
be
appropriated
to
pay
for
it.
Conversely,
if
money
is
allocated
for
something
and
the
authorization
bill
prohibits
or
limits
it,
the
money
cannot
be
spent
in
excess
of
that
authorization.
Key
point
&#8211;
both
bills
matter
a
great
deal.
For
something
as
big
as
the
Defense
budget,
it&#8217;s
a
lot
of
programs
and
a
lot
of
line
items.
So
the
year-long
committee
process
is
important
in
making
sure
we
do
the
due
diligence
required
to
make
sure
the
funds
are
allocated
in
the
most
efficient
and
effective
way.
Here&#8217;s
a
quick
example.
Right
now,
the
Air
Force
is
working
on
a
small,
targeted
EMP
device,
which
can
knock
out
the
electrical
systems
of
an
enemy
ship
or
command
and
control
center.
The
goal
is
to
put
those
small
EMPs
on
a
reusable
delivery
vehicle
so
we
can
send
it
out,
zap
the
enemy,
and
reuse
the
weapon
again
later.
They
anticipate
gaining
that
capability
in
about
a
decade.
Last
year,
I
learned
that
we
had
over
a
hundred
old
cruise
missiles
sitting
in
a
warehouse
collecting
dust
and
with
some
slight
modifications,
we
could
retrofit
those
cruise
missiles
to
carry
the
EMP.
It
would
be
a
one-off
tool,
but
it
would
provide
our
warfighters
with
that
capability
years
ahead
of
schedule
at
a
fraction
of
the
cost.
That
was
one
of
my
amendments
to
the
bill.
Without
these
bills,
we
can&#8217;t
get
into
the
weeds
like
this
to
ask
the
tough
questions.
That&#8217;s
why
it&#8217;s
so
frustrating
to
me
that
when
we
are
obligated
to
pass
budgets
and
then
twelve
appropriations
and
authorization
bills
that
Congress
often
just
doesn&#8217;t
bother
(last
year,
the
Senate
didn&#8217;t
pass
a
single
one).
It&#8217;s
not
necessarily
the
most
exciting
thing
in
the
world,
but
it
matters.
Managing
the
taxpayers&#8217;
investments
is
fundamental
to
what
Congress
is
supposed
to
do.
Leaving
it
on
auto-pilot
is
a
gross
dereliction
of
duty,
in
my
opinion
&#8211;
especially
when
times
are
tough
and
budgets
are
so
tight.
In
any
case,
I&#8217;m
pleased
to
report
that
the
House
is
doing
its
job.
It&#8217;s
not
always
graceful
and
the
results
won&#8217;t
always
yield
everything
we&#8217;d
like,
but
it&#8217;s
an
important
part
of
the
process
and
something
the
Founders
put
a
great
deal
of
thought
into
when
they
were
setting
up
our
system
of
government.
If
you
are
interested
in
hearing
more
about
this
year&#8217;s
NDAA
or
anything
else
we&#8217;re
working
on
up
in
Washington,
please
let
me
know.
On
a
final
note,
this
weekend
we
recognize
Memorial
Day
in
America.
It&#8217;s
a
time
to
reflect
and
honor
those
brave
men
and
women
who
have
made
the
ultimate
sacrifice
in
defense
of
this
nation.
As
a
father
of
three
soldiers
and
as
member
of
the
Armed
Services
Committee,
the
question
of
how
we
equip,
train,
and
utilize
our
military
is
never
far
from
my
mind.
The
decisions
we
make
in
Congress,
whether
it
is
to
authorize
military
action
or
to
make
investments
in
new
training
and
equipment
have
real
consequences
for
our
warfighters.
But
all
of
the
investment
this
nation
makes
in
our
military
means
nothing
without
the
brave
individuals
who
volunteer
&#8211;
each
and
every
one
of
them
&#8211;
to
step
up
and
serve.
It
is
our
human
assets
and
the
investment
and
sacrifice
that
military
families
make
that
makes
our
military
the
strongest
fighting
force
in
the
world.
So
this
weekend,
as
we
recognize
those
American
heroes
who
have
fallen,
please
take
a
moment
to
thank
those
veterans
out
there
who
I
know
would
have
proudly
and
honorably
taken
their
place.
Sincerely, Rich
Nugent Member
of
Congress
Unsubscribe
|
Privacy
Policy
